Acd 693 (#44)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: Fulfillment/Operation/01_ManageDispatchNotes.md

[!!User Interface Dispatch notes](../UserInterface/01a_List.md)
[!!User Interface Logging](../UserInterface/02a_Connections.md)
[!!User Interface Packaging types](../UserInterface/03b_PackagingTypes.md)
[!!Check a shipment](./02_CheckShipment.md)
[!!Manage the connections](../Integration/01_ManageConnections.md)

# Manage the dispatch notes

Dispatch notes are shipment requests generated by the system when a delivery note has been issued in the *Order management* module. The dispatch note is than sent to the order fulfiller, who will in turn arrange the shipment.

> The communication between the *Actindo Core1 Platform* and the fulfiller's internal system takes place via a connection driver. The *Actindo Core1 Platform* sends the fulfiller the information they need based on the information provided in the delivery note, which has been previously mapped via the ETL function in the *DataHub* module. The fulfiller, on the other hand, sends back a confirmation message to update the shipment status accordingly during all stages of the fulfillment process.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The communication between the *Actindo Core1 Platform* and the fulfiller's internal system takes place via a connection driver. The *Actindo Core1 Platform* sends the fulfiller the information they need based on the information provided in the delivery note. The delivery note and the dispatch note have been previously mapped via the ETL function in the *DataHub* module. The fulfiller, on the other hand, sends back a confirmation message to update the shipment status accordingly during all stages of the fulfillment process.   
```

> The *Fulfillment* module works together with the *Workflows* module. Once the *Fulfillment* module has been configured, a workflow must be created for the corresponding business process, which runs automatically in the *Workflows* module. The *Fulfillment* module is therefore designed to monitor the fulfillment process but not to steer it. For this purpose, the *Workflows* module should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Fulfillment* module works together with the *Workflows* module. Once the *Fulfillment* module has been configured, a workflow must be created for the corresponding business process, which runs automatically in the *Workflows* module. The *Fulfillment* module is designed to monitor the fulfillment process but not to steer it. For this purpose, the *Workflows* module should be used.
```

> [comment]: <> (Link auf Operation/ManageWorkflows? Evtl. extra Info in Integration?)

Reviewer: Meinetwegen ein related link auf Workflows; was meinst du mit extra info in Integration?

## Check a dispatch note

A dispatch note provides numerous order-related details, which may vary depending on the connection settings. The following order-related details, among others, can be checked in the list of dispatch notes.

#### Prerequisites

> - A connection has been created, see [Create a connection](../Integration/01_ManageConnections.md#create-a-connection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At least one connection has been created, see [Create a connection](../Integration/01_ManageConnections.md#create-a-connection).
```

- A delivery note has been issued in the *Order management* module and, therefore, a dispatch note has been generated.

#### Procedure

*Fulfillment > Dispatch notes > Tab LIST*

![Dispatch notes](../../Assets/Screenshots/Fulfillment/DispatchNotes/DispatchNotes.png "[Dispatch notes]")

1. Check the dispatch note status in the *Status* column. The status displays the current stage in the fulfillment process. The following options are available:  
    - **New dispatch note**  
        The dispatch note has been newly created.
    - **Transferred to partner**  
        The dispatch note has been transferred to partner but no receival has been confirmed. In rare occasions, the fulfiller may note receive a dispatch note. In that case, it may be necessary to reexport the dispatch note, see [Export a dispatch note](#export-a-dispatch-note).
    - **Partner confirmed receival**  

>         The fulfiller has confirmed receival of the dispatch note. The shipment status is subsequently updated by the fulfiller, see [Check the shipment status](./02_CheckShipment.md#check-the-shipment-status). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The fulfiller has confirmed the receival of the dispatch note. The shipment status is subsequently updated by the fulfiller, see [Check the shipment status](./02_CheckShipment.md#check-the-shipment-status). 
```

    - **Dispatch note completed**  
        The dispatch note has been processed.
    - **Error**  

>         The dispatch note has given an error, for instance, because the export has failed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The dispatch note has has not been processed as an error occurred, for instance, because the export has failed. 
```

    - **Void**  
        The dispatch note is marked as void if, for example, the order has been cancelled.

    If further information on the dispatch note status is needed, the list of messages generated in the communication process between the *Actindo Core1 Platform* and the fulfiller's system can be checked in the *Logging* menu entry, see [Logging](../UserInterface/02a_Connections.md).

2. Check the dispatch note number in the *Document number* column.  

>     The document number equals the delivery note number and can be useful to find further order-related details in the *Order management* module.

Reviewer: kein Result! Entweder als Info oder ohne Zeilenumbruch direkt an den Schritt anhängen.

3. Check the order number in the *Description* column.    

>     The order number is a user-defined field. It can be useful to find further order-related details in the *Order management* module.

Reviewer: kein Result! Entweder als Info oder ohne Zeilenumbruch direkt an den Schritt anhängen.

4. Check the packaging type identification number in the *Packaging type* column. Alternatively, click a dispatch note and select the *Attributes* sub-tab, if it is not preselected.  

>     The packaging type identification number is displayed in the *FULFILLMENT DISPATCH NOTE BASE ATTRIBUTES* section.  

Reviewer: Bin mir nicht sicher, ob ich die Alternative beschreiben würde. Ist zwar korrekt, aber doch eigentlich umständlich, oder? Und wenn man es genau nimmt, müsstest du dann noch beschreiben, dass du die dispatch note view wieder schließt, um auf die Liste zurückzukommen... Mhh. Darfst du entscheiden, ob du es weglässt...

>     > [Info] The packaging types are defined in the *PACKAGING TYPES* tab of *Settings* menu entry and provide detailed information on the packaging used for shipment, the shipping type, and the ship-to country, among others. For detailed information, see [Packaging types](../UserInterface/03b_PackagingTypes.md).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > [Info] The packaging types are defined in the *PACKAGING TYPES* tab of *Settings* menu entry and provide detailed information on the packaging used for the shipment, the shipping type, and the ship-to country, among others. For detailed information, see [Packaging types](../UserInterface/03b_PackagingTypes.md).  
```

6. Check the shipment status in the *Shipment status* column. For further information, see [Check the shipment status](./02_CheckShipment.md#check-the-shipment-status).

7. If desired, click the ![Columns](../../Assets/Icons/Columns.png "[Columns]") (Columns) button to add further details to the list of dispatch notes. 

>     > [Info] Additional information can be displayed depending on the fields (attributes) mapped via the fulfiller's driver when establishing the connection. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    > [Info] Additional information can be displayed depending on the fields (attributes) mapped via the fulfiller's driver when establishing the connection. 
```

## Complete a dispatch note

> Fulfillers may not notify if an order has been delivered. In this case, the dispatch note status is not automatically updated to completed. To provide a better overview and handling of the dispatch note list, the dispatch note status can be updated manually if necessary. It is also possible to update the status of several dispatch notes at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fulfillers may not notify if an order has been delivered. In this case, the dispatch note status is not automatically updated to **completed**. To provide a better overview and handling of the dispatch note list, the dispatch note status can be updated manually if necessary. It is also possible to update the status of several dispatch notes at once.
```

#### Prerequisites

- The shipment has been delivered.

> - The dispatch note status is **Partner confirmed receival** and the shipment status remains as ![Circular arrows](../../Assets/Icons/CircularArrows.png "[Circular arrows]") (Circular arrows), that is, in progress, in the list of dispatch notes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The dispatch note status is **Partner confirmed receival** and the shipment status is ![Circular arrows](../../Assets/Icons/CircularArrows.png "[Circular arrows]") (In progress) in the list of dispatch notes. 
```

- All shipments included in the dispatch note have been shipped, that is, the status of all shipments included in the *Shipments* sub-tab of the *Dispatch note "Dispatch note ID"* view is **Shipped**.

#### Procedure

*Fulfillment > Dispatch notes > Tab LIST*

![Dispatch notes](../../Assets/Screenshots/Fulfillment/DispatchNotes/DispatchNotes.png "[Dispatch notes]")

1. Click the dispatch note whose status has not been updated.  
    The *Dispatch note "Dispatch note ID"* view is displayed.

2. Click the *Shipments* sub-tab.  
    All shipments included in the dispatch note are displayed.

> 

Reviewer: Warum keine Screenshots?

3. Verify that the status of all shipments is **Shipped**.

> 4. Click the ![Back](../../Assets/Icons/Back02.png "[Back]") (Back) button to return to the list of dispatch notes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the ![Back](../../Assets/Icons/Back02.png "[Back]") (Back) button in the upper left corner.
   The *Dispatch note "Dispatch note ID"* view is closed and the list of dispatch notes is displayed again. 
```

5. Click the checkbox of the dispatch note(s) to be completed.   
    The editing toolbar is displayed.

6. Click the [FORCE COMPLETION] button in the editing toolbar.  
    The *"x DispatchNotes forced to completion, failed for x"* notice is displayed.

>     > [Info] The x indicates the number of dispatch notes that have been completed or that have failed. A manual completion will only fail if the status of any shipment contained in the dispatch note is not **Shipped**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > [Info] The x indicates the number of dispatch notes that have been completed or that have failed. A manual completion will only fail if the status of any shipment in the dispatch note is not **Shipped**.
```

    ![Forced to completion](../../Assets/Screenshots/Fulfillment/DispatchNotes/ForcedtoCompletion.png "[Forced to completion]")

>     The *Status* column changes to **Dispatch note completed** and the *Shipment status* column changes to ![Double check](../../Assets/Icons/DoubleCheck.png "[Double check]") (Double check). The status of all shipments included in the dispatch note is updated to **Delivered**.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The dispatch note status in the *Status* column changes to **Dispatch note completed** and the shipment status in the *Shipment status* column changes to ![Double check](../../Assets/Icons/DoubleCheck.png "[Double check]") (Double check). The status of all shipments in the dispatch note is updated to **Delivered**.    
```
Checken ob ich die Status richtig benannt habe. Aber wichtig ist, dass sich der Status in der Spalte und nicht die Spalte selbst (oder der Spaltenname) ändert.

## Export a dispatch note

> You can reexport a dispatch note to the fulfiller if the receival has failed in the partner's system. Nevertheless, this procedure should be carefully used, as some destination systems may not be able to manage a reexport of data. Besides, possible dependent processes in the *Actindo Core1 Platform* must be considered. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can re-export a dispatch note to the fulfiller if the receival has failed in the partner's system. Nevertheless, this procedure should be carefully used, as some destination systems may not be able to manage a re-export of data. Besides, dependent processes in the *Actindo Core1 Platform* must be considered. 
```
reexport ist zwar richtig, ich glaube aber, so ist es leichter lesbar...

#### Prerequisites

- A dispatch note has been generated and sent.
- The dispatch note status is **Transferred to partner**.
- The shipment status is ![Cross](../../Assets/Icons/Cross02.png "[Cross]") (Cross), that is, no shipment has been arranged by the fulfiller.

#### Procedure

*Fulfillment > Dispatch notes > Tab LIST*

![Dispatch notes](../../Assets/Screenshots/Fulfillment/DispatchNotes/DispatchNotes.png "[Dispatch notes]")

> 1. Click the checkbox of the dispatch note to be reexported.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the checkbox of the dispatch note to be re-exported.   
```

    The editing toolbar is displayed.

2. Click the [EXPORT] button.   

>     A confirmation window is displayed with the following notice: *One or more of the selected dispatch notes are not waiting for transfer! Exporting might produce errors in automated processes. Are you sure?*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The *Confirm selection* confirmation window is displayed.
```

    ![Confirm selection](../../Assets/Screenshots/Fulfillment/DispatchNotes/ConfirmSelectionExport.png "[Confirm selection]")

> 3. Click the [EXPORT] button in the confirmation window if you wish to proceed.  
>     An additional confirmation notice window is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the [EXPORT] button in the confirmation window.  
    The *Really?* confirmation window is displayed.
```

    ![Export confirmation](../../Assets/Screenshots/Fulfillment/DispatchNotes/ReallyExport.png "[Export confirmation]")

> 4. Click the [EXPORT] button if you are sure you want to export the dispatch note again.  
>     The dispatch note has been resent to the fulfiller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the [EXPORT] button in the *Really?* confirmation window.  
    The dispatch note has been re-exported to the fulfiller.
```
